PG-Agent: An Agent Powered by Page Graph
Weizhi Chen∗
Zhejiang Key Lab of Accessible
Perception & Intelligent Systems,
Zhejiang University
Hangzhou, China
chenweizhi@zju.edu.cn
Ziwei Wang∗
Zhejiang Key Lab of Accessible
Perception & Intelligent Systems,
Zhejiang University
Hangzhou, China
wangziwei98@zju.edu.cn
Leyang Yang
Zhejiang Key Lab of Accessible
Perception & Intelligent Systems,
Zhejiang University
Hangzhou, China
yangleyang@zju.edu.cn
Sheng Zhou†
Zhejiang Key Lab of Accessible
Perception & Intelligent Systems,
Zhejiang University
Hangzhou, China
zhousheng_zju@zju.edu.cn
Xiaoxuan Tang
Ant Group
Beijing, China
leahxx1226@outlook.com
Jiajun Bu
Zhejiang Key Lab of Accessible
Perception & Intelligent Systems,
Zhejiang University
Hangzhou, China
bjj@zju.edu.cn
Yong Li†
Ant Group
Hangzhou, China
liyong.liy@antgroup.com
Wei Jiang
Ant Group
Beijing, China
jonny.jw@antgroup.com
Abstract
Graphical User Interface (GUI) agents possess significant commer-
cial and social value, and GUI agents powered by advanced mul-
timodal large language models (MLLMs) have demonstrated re-
markable potential. Currently, existing GUI agents usually utilize
sequential episodes of multi-step operations across pages as the
prior GUI knowledge, which fails to capture the complex transition
relationship between pages, making it challenging for the agents
to deeply perceive the GUI environment and generalize to new
scenarios. Therefore, we design an automated pipeline to trans-
form the sequential episodes into page graphs, which explicitly
model the graph structure of the pages that are naturally connected
by actions. To fully utilize the page graphs, we further introduce
Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) technology to effectively
retrieve reliable perception guidelines of GUI from them, and a
tailored multi-agent framework PG-Agent with task decomposition
strategy is proposed to be injected with the guidelines so that it can
generalize to unseen scenarios. Extensive experiments on various
benchmarks demonstrate the effectiveness of PG-Agent, even with
limited episodes for page graph construction. Our codes will be
publicly available at https://github.com/chenwz-123/PG-Agent.
∗Both authors contributed equally to this research.
†Corresponding author.
Permission to make digital or hard copies of all or part of this work for personal or
classroom use is granted without fee provided that copies are not made or distributed
for profit or commercial advantage and that copies bear this notice and the full citation
on the first page. Copyrights for components of this work owned by others than the
author(s) must be honored. Abstracting with credit is permitted. To copy otherwise, or
republish, to post on servers or to redistribute to lists, requires prior specific permission
and/or a fee. Request permissions from permissions@acm.org.
MM ’25, Dublin, Ireland
© 2025 Copyright held by the owner/author(s). Publication rights licensed to ACM.
ACM ISBN 979-8-4007-2035-2/2025/10
https://doi.org/10.1145/3746027.3755189
CCS Concepts
• Human-centered computing →Human computer interac-
tion (HCI); Interaction design.
Keywords
GUI Agent; Retrieval-Augmented Generation; Multimodal Large
Language Model
ACM Reference Format:
Weizhi Chen, Ziwei Wang, Leyang Yang, Sheng Zhou, Xiaoxuan Tang,
Jiajun Bu, Yong Li, and Wei Jiang. 2025. PG-Agent: An Agent Powered by
Page Graph. In Proceedings of the 33rd ACM International Conference on
Multimedia (MM ’25), October 27–31, 2025, Dublin, Ireland. ACM, New York,
NY, USA, 13 pages. https://doi.org/10.1145/3746027.3755189
1
Introduction
The Graphical User Interface (GUI) has become crucial for humans
in interacting with mobile devices and websites. Recently, there
has been a notable increase in interest in GUI agents that can
autonomously perform tasks by interacting with the user inter-
face [27]. It is emerging as a significant topic of study in disci-
plines such as software engineering and human-computer inter-
action [19, 31, 36], among several others. Early works employed
parsing tools to transform the pages into HTML presentations, uti-
lizing large language models (LLMs) to analyze the page layouts
to make decisions [14, 39]. With the rapid development of multi-
modal large language models (MLLMs) [1, 2, 6, 28, 42], MLLM-based
GUI agents become the mainstream architecture, which are able to
analyze the screen and generate actions end-to-end.
The GUI agents are conducted in a structured enclosed space
where different pages are naturally interconnected through opera-
tions like clicking. Therefore, it is essential for the agent to possess
the awareness of possible actions and their consequent pages. How-
ever, existing works [8, 22, 32] have collected abundant knowledge
arXiv:2509.03536v1  [cs.AI]  27 Aug 2025
MM ’25, October 27–31, 2025, Dublin, Ireland
Weizhi Chen et al.
Reconstruction
Page Graph
0
1
2
6
9
0
4
5
0
1
5
8
Agent Group
RAG
Episodes
PG-Agent
…
Figure 1: Illustration of PG-Agent. (i) Convert chain-like
episodes into a semantically rich page graph; (ii) With page
graph as GUI prior knowledge, RAG technology assists the
tailored multi-agent workflow to enhance GUI navigation.
from diverse devices, but usually treat them as independent items.
For example, the navigation tasks on GUI involving sequences of
multi-step operations across different pages, where each step pro-
vides crucial semantics and functionality for the task. Such linear
knowledge restricts the agent to focusing mainly on the consecutive
steps and thus lacks the perceptions of possible actions leading to
other pages simultaneously. As a result, the semantic association
information between pages is not fully integrated into the model,
leading to significant challenges when the model performs complex
tasks, especially on new tasks. During the deployment phase, it is
probable that a single sequential episode cannot directly instruct
the agent to finish the task, while the transition relationships from
multiple episodes can provide more clues about possible actions and
corresponding results to pave a new way to the target page. This
raises a natural question: “How to explicitly model the semantic
relationships among pages and enhance the perception capability
of GUI Agents in new scenarios?”
Fortunately, the pages of GUI screens naturally form a page graph
connected by the actions, and a sequential episode is essentially
a path sampling on this graph. Inspired by this concept, we can
reconstruct the sequential episodes into the page graph, which
offers a more comprehensive understanding of the page transitions,
rather than the fragmented page connections brought by discrete
episodes. Any traversal path in the page graph can be regarded
as an effective recombination of original independent knowledge
items. Meanwhile, positioning at a node, the agent can easily obtain
possible actions from the outgoing edges and perceive consequent
pages to assist the navigation process.
Besides, to utilize the page graph as prior knowledge for the
agent planning, the Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) tech-
nology [15] is able to effectively leverage it without any parameter
modifications, which enables the agent to adapt to different scenar-
ios by simply switching the page graph. In this way, RAG is also
able to explicitly retrieve the graph-structured information from
the page graph, offering superior semantic perceptions of page
transitions. Moreover, the exploration in the page graph of RAG
is actually an accessing and integrating process of real actions in
episodes, providing an authentic and reliable set of possible actions
as guidelines. Previous works have adopted the RAG to retrieve
guidelines like descriptions of widget functions [16] or reference
trajectories in similar tasks [45], which are usually discrete without
graph structure to perceive the current scenario deeply. Therefore,
a tailored retrieval strategy applied in the page graph is also critical.
To tackle the aforementioned challenges, we propose an auto-
mated pipeline to transform the sequential episodes into the page
graphs, including three stages of page jump determination, node
similarity check and page graph update. During the process, we
check every action tuple (i.e., the action and the pages before and
after it) and gradually update the page graph by combining consecu-
tive in-page operations into one edge and similar pages as one node.
Moreover, to retrieving guidelines from the page graphs and fully
utilize them, we also design a multi-agent framework PG-Agent
enhanced by tailored RAG technology. First, we use the summary
of the current screen to locate similar nodes in the page graph and
conduct breadth first search (BFS) to explore available actions, de-
riving guidelines like "perform some actions can lead to accomplish
some tasks". With comprehensive guidelines, we divide the reason-
ing process into several agents following existing works [35, 38],
incorporate the task decomposition and inject the guidelines into
the sub-task planning process, where the perceptions of the GUI
scenario are particularly critical. We conduct extensive experiments
on three benchmarks and the results demonstrate the effectiveness
of PG-Agent, even if we only sample a few episodes to construct
the page graph. The primary contributions of this paper can be
summarized as follows:
• To model the transition relationships between GUI pages, We
design an automated pipeline to reconstruct the discrete episodes
into page graphs, which serve as external prior knowledge bases.
• We propose PG-Agent, a tailored multi-agent framework aug-
mented by RAG technology. With the incorporation of task de-
composition, guidelines retrieved from page graphs offer more
targeted planning reference.
• Experimental results on three benchmarks demonstrate that PG-
Agent exhibits superior navigation ability with the page graphs.
Even if the episodes for page graph construction is limited, the
effectiveness remains evident.
2
Related Work
2.1
Retrieval-Augmented Generation
Retrieval-Augmented Generation (RAG) can solve the issues of
knowledge out-of-distribution in large models, such as output hal-
lucination, lack of domain-specific knowledge, and outdated in-
formation by dynamically parsing the input content and retriev-
ing relevant external knowledge [46]. Previous research on RAG
mainly focused on question-answering related tasks [24, 33], such
as using Table-to-Text methods to convert tabular data into tex-
tual form to enhance the document QA capability of LLM [25],
using multi-modal embedding technology to uniform knowledge
of different modalities to enhance multi-modal QA of the foun-
dational model [13, 21], and utilizing the chunking methods to
truncate the query and realize multi-granularity retrieval of ex-
ternal knowledge [5, 43]. Given that graph structures effectively
represent complex data relationships and enable efficient informa-
tion retrieval, the application of RAG technology to graph data
has emerged as an interesting research focus [30]. GraphRAG [10]
adopts a clustering approach by connecting small text blocks via
semantic similarity, then applying community detection to group
PG-Agent: An Agent Powered by Page Graph
MM ’25, October 27–31, 2025, Dublin, Ireland
Task: Go to internet settings
……
Episode
Click(136,133)
Page Jump Determination
Action Summary: Click on the "Settings" app icon
next action tuple
Node Similarity Check
Page Summary: This screen is a settings page on a mobile 
device, displaying various system configuration options 
such as connected devices, apps & notifications, battery 
status, display settings, sound preferences, storage 
information, privacy controls, location services, security 
features, account management, and accessibility options.
Page Graph
retrieved
Jump?
action tuple
Page Graph Update
Dissimilar?
new edge
Updated Page Graph
Updated Page Graph
new node
Figure 2: The overall pipeline of page graph construction. It comprises three stages: page jump determination, node similarity
check and page graph update.
nodes, and finally summarizing query answers by analyzing node
community responses. To model document relationships: Munikoti
et al. [26] developed a heterogeneous document graph capturing
multiple document-level relations, while Li et al. [17] and Wang
et al. [37] established passage-level connections based on shared
keywords. In the mobile agent scenario, there are also some works
that use RAG to enhance the base model by providing additional
interaction knowledge [16, 45]. However, they treat the traffic data
as independent trajectory chains. We argue that in GUI scenarios,
the data formed by the jump relationship between different screen
pages is a global graph structure rather than discrete chains. Thus,
ignoring the structured signals between pages will limit the model’s
knowledge learning in this domain.
2.2
GUI Agent
Recent progress has begun to adopt LLMs [34, 41, 45] to build au-
tonomous agents, leveraging LLMs’ extensive world knowledge
and strong reasoning capabilities for task planning and execution
to achieve human-like capabilities. Structural text replaces the orig-
inal GUI image input into the LLMs. With the emergence of MLLMs,
visual signals of images are projected into natural language space.
Therefore, existing research tends to directly use MLLMs to build
agents, so as to naturally process the visual information in the
GUI field. One notable approach is to use large-scale general mod-
els, such as GPT-4v [28], as GUI agents. Many studies use prompt
engineering to guide these models to perform complex tasks. Ap-
pAgent [44] is built on GPT-4v, generating guidance documents
through exploration phase to assist decision-making. Mobile-Agent-
v2 [35] first proposes multi-agent collaboration in GUI scenarios to
improve the decision-making effect of each step. Another research
direction focuses on fine-tuning smaller MLLMs [7, 12, 18] using
GUI-specific datasets to bridge the domain gap between common
images and GUI screens.
3
Method
In this section, we will illustrate how to transform chained action
episodes into structured page graphs, along with readable guideline
documents. Subsequently, we introduce PG-Agent that is tailored
to leverage the page graphs to achieve precise GUI navigation.
3.1
Page Graph Construction
Naturally, the pages and their links within a website or an applica-
tion form a graph structure, and an episode to complete a navigation
task actually represents a walking path in this graph. Thus, with ex-
isting episodes in a specific GUI scenario where relevant websites or
applications are limited, we can construct the corresponding page
graph as future guidance in this scenario. We design our pipeline
purely based on visual clues without additional modal inputs such
as the page’s DOM or HTML architecture. The overall pipeline
for page graph construction is shown in Figure 2, including three
stages: page jump determination, node similarity check and page
graph update.
Page Jump Determination. Assuming an action tuple in the
episode 𝐸with task 𝑇is (𝐼𝑏𝑒𝑓𝑜𝑟𝑒,𝐴, 𝐼𝑎𝑓𝑡𝑒𝑟), where 𝐼𝑏𝑒𝑓𝑜𝑟𝑒and
𝐼𝑎𝑓𝑡𝑒𝑟represent the screenshot images before and after the action
𝐴, respectively. First, the actions need to be converted into natural
language. For actions involving specific coordinates, their mean-
ings will be lost when separated from the corresponding images.
Therefore, a MLLM [2] is used to summarize them:
𝑆𝑎𝑐𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛= MLLM(𝐼𝑏𝑒𝑓𝑜𝑟𝑒,𝐴, P𝑎𝑐𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛),
(1)
where 𝑆𝑎𝑐𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛is the summary of the action and P𝑎𝑐𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛is the
prompt for action summary. Then, considering fewer redundant
nodes and retrieval effectiveness, only unique pages are adopted to
build the page graph. Therefore, it is first necessary to determine
whether the action 𝐴triggers the page jump.
𝑌𝑗𝑢𝑚𝑝= MLLM(𝐼𝑏𝑒𝑓𝑜𝑟𝑒, 𝐼𝑎𝑓𝑡𝑒𝑟,𝑆𝑎𝑐𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛, P𝑗𝑢𝑚𝑝),
(2)
where 𝑌𝑗𝑢𝑚𝑝∈[Yes, No] represents the determination result and
P𝑗𝑢𝑚𝑝is the prompt template for page jump assessment. If the
result is "No", the action is usually in-page operation like typing
words or opening a drawer that do not lead to new pages, we will
store this action summary 𝑆𝑎𝑐𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛in a queue 𝑄𝑎𝑐𝑡𝑖𝑜𝑛and directly
process the next action tuple in the episode.
Node Similarity Check. When the result 𝑌𝑗𝑢𝑚𝑝is "Yes", it
means this action successfully lead to different page. Then we take
the following step to summarize the image after action based on
the overall function of the page and key components displayed for
node similarity check:
𝑆𝑝𝑎𝑔𝑒= MLLM(𝐼𝑎𝑓𝑡𝑒𝑟, P𝑝𝑎𝑔𝑒),
(3)
